Include documentation for DES python code (#13)
11michalis11/ED-EMS-game-paper: sections/appendix/descrete_event_simulation/main.tex

        \node[anchor=north] at (6.6cm, 2.2cm) {\(
            \overbrace{\qquad \qquad \qquad \qquad}^{20}
        \)};

        % the circle in Queue 2
        \draw (7.75,0.5) circle [radius=0.75cm] node {\(6\)};

        % Arrow line from Queue 2 outside
        \draw[->] (8.5,0.525) -- +(20pt,0);
        
        % Line from lambda_2 to Queue 1
        \draw[<-] (-0.3,-0.75) -- +(-40pt,0) node[left] {\( 3 \)};

        % Lines after Parking queue
        \draw[-] (3,-0.75) -- +(34pt,0);
        \draw (4.2, 0.525) -- (4.2, -0.75);
        
        % Lines for lambda_1 arrivals
        \draw (4.2, 1.8) -- +(-169.5pt,0) node[left] {\( 2 \)};
        \draw (4.2, 1.8) -- (4.2, 0.525);

        % Line from both individuals to Queue 2
        \draw[->] (4.2, 0.525) -- (4.8, 0.525);  
    \end{tikzpicture}
    \caption{A diagrammatic representation of the queueing model example}
    \label{fig:diagram_of_queueing_system_appendix_example}
\end{figure}

This model will be studied by using  
\lstinline[style=pystyle]{ambulance_game}.
Install the created library in your python environment, by running the 
following command in the command line:
\begin{lstlisting}[style=terminalstyle]

>     $ pip install ambulance_game

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    $ python -m pip install ambulance_game
```

There are various subtle reasons why that's better. TLDR: pip and python *can* not actually be in the same environment so by doing `python -m pip` you ensure you're using the same pip as python.

\end{lstlisting}

Having installed the package, the following code can be used to simulate the 
queueing system defined earlier and get all the data records for a single run.

\begin{lstlisting}[style=pystyle]
    >>> import ambulance_game as abg
    >>> Simulation = abg.simulation.simulate_model(
    ...     lambda_1=3,
    ...     lambda_2=2,
    ...     mu=1,
    ...     num_of_servers=6,
    ...     threshold=10,
    ...     system_capacity=20,
    ...     buffer_capacity=10,
    ...     seed_num=0,
    ... )
    >>> all_records = Simulation.get_all_records()
    >>> all_records[3]
    Record(id_number=1, customer_class=0, node=2, arrival_date=0.4728763843239206, waiting_time=0.0, service_start_date=0.4728763843239206, service_time=0.5457131455415929, service_end_date=1.0185895298655134, time_blocked=0.0, exit_date=1.0185895298655134, destination=-1, queue_size_at_arrival=0, queue_size_at_departure=4)

> \end{lstlisting}

Reviewer: Is there a reason why you are using `lstlisting` instead of `minted`?

Reviewer 2: Honestly no particular reason. I just liked it better

Reviewer: Ok cool. That's as good a reason as any. `minted` is  "usually" preferred as the more modern one so it generally is thought to look nicer BUT if you prefer this that's as good a reason as any. :+1:

The above block code outputs the fourth individual record from the simulation
object.

> The simulation object can be used to view the every event that occurred in the 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The simulation object can be used to view every event that occurred in the 
```

by running:

\begin{lstlisting}[style=pystyle]
    >>> import numpy as np
    >>> mean_wait = np.mean(
    ...    [record.waiting_time for record in all_records if record.node == 2]
    ... )
    >>> mean_wait
    0.3608431242229529

\end{lstlisting}

This value is the average waiting time of all the customers in the system for a
single run. 
By nature, discrete event simulation can output different results for different
runs of the same set of parameters.
This stochasticity can be reduced by running the simulation multiple times 
and then getting the mean waiting time from all the runs.

\begin{lstlisting}[style=pystyle]
    >>> all_simulations = abg.simulation.get_multiple_runs_results(
    ...     lambda_1=3,
    ...     lambda_2=2,
    ...     mu=1,
    ...     num_of_servers=6,
    ...     threshold=10,
    ...     system_capacity=20,
    ...     buffer_capacity=10,
    ...     seed_num=0,
    ...     num_of_trials=10,
    ... )
    >>> mean_wait = np.mean(
    ...     [np.mean(w.waiting_times) for w in all_simulations]
    ... )
    >>> mean_wait
    0.3566390561071839

\end{lstlisting}

\subsection{How-to guide}

The package can be installed by either running:

> 

Reviewer: Have little subsections for each "how to". For example here:

```
\subsubsection{How to install}
```

\begin{lstlisting}[style=terminalstyle]

>     $ pip install ambulance_game

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    $ python -m pip install ambulance_game
```

\end{lstlisting}

in the command line or via the instructions provided in the GitHub repository.
% TODO: Cite repository

> The required arguments that need to be passed to the simulate\_model() function

Reviewer: `simulate_model()` should be in an inline code environment

are the following:
\begin{itemize}
    \item lambda\_1 (\(\lambda_1\)): The arrival rate of class 1 individuals.
    \item lambda\_2 (\(\lambda_2\)): The arrival rate of class 2 individuals.
    \item mu (\(\mu\)): The service rate of the servers.
    \item num\_of\_servers (\(C\)): The number of servers in the system.
    \item threshold (\(T\)): The threshold that indicates when to start blocking 
    class 2 individuals.
\end{itemize}

To get the simulation object with all the data records, the following code can be

> used:
> \begin{lstlisting}[style=pystyle]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
used:

\begin{lstlisting}[style=pystyle]
```

    >>> import ambulance_game as abg
    >>> Simulation = abg.simulation.simulate_model(
    ...     lambda_1=3,
    ...     lambda_2=2,
    ...     mu=1,
    ...     num_of_servers=6,
    ...     threshold=10,
    ...     seed_num=0,
    ... )
    >>> Simulation.get_all_records()[4]
    Record(id_number=2, customer_class=0, node=2, arrival_date=0.5727571550618586, waiting_time=0.0, service_start_date=0.5727571550618586, service_time=0.7159547497671506, service_end_date=1.2887119048290092, time_blocked=0.0, exit_date=1.2887119048290092, destination=-1, queue_size_at_arrival=1, queue_size_at_departure=3)

\end{lstlisting}

Additional arguments that can be passed to the function are:
\begin{itemize}
    \item \textit{system\_capacity}: The maximum number of individuals in 
    waiting zone 2.
    \item \textit{buffer\_capacity}: The maximum number of individuals in 
    waiting zone 1.
    \item \textit{seed\_num}: The seed number for the random number generator.
    \item \textit{runtime}: How long to run the simulation for.
\end{itemize}

> From a single run of the simulation the data records can be used the get the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
From a single run of the simulation the data records can be used to get the
```

average for certain performance measures. 
The following code can be used to get the mean waiting time, blocking time, 
service time and the proportion of individuals within target.

\begin{lstlisting}[style=pystyle]
    >>> records = Simulation.get_all_records()
    >>> mean_wait = np.mean(
    ...     [w.waiting_time for w in records]
    ... )
    >>> mean_wait
    0.23845862661827116

    >>> mean_block = np.mean(
    ...     [b.time_blocked for b in records]
    ... )
    >>> mean_block
    0.08501727452006658

    >>> mean_service = np.mean(
    ...     [s.service_time for s in records]
    ... )
    >>> mean_service
    0.7102610863960119

    >>> target = 1
    >>> proportion_within_target = np.mean(
    ...     [w.waiting_time <= target for w in records]
    ... )
    >>> proportion_within_target
    0.9387470071827614
    
\end{lstlisting}

> To eliminate any stochasticity in the simulation, the simulation can be run

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To reduce the effects of stochasticity in the simulation, the simulation can be run
```
